help about_Get-NewPSRemoteSession
online version https://learn.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_Remote

TOPIC
    about_Get-NewPSRemoteSession

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Lists available PSSessions, displays a summary, and selects the first session.

LONG DESCRIPTION
    The Get-NewPSRemoteSession function gets the PSSession objects available in
    the current runspace by calling Get-PSSession. When sessions are found, it
    writes a summary table to the host with each session's Id, Name,
    ComputerName, ConfigurationName, State, and Availability.

    The function then selects the first session returned by Get-PSSession,
    stores that PSSession in $script:ActivePSSession, writes an informational
    log message, and returns the selected PSSession to the pipeline. The summary
    table is displayed with Format-Table and Out-Host; it is not the function's
    pipeline output.

    If no PSSessions are available, the function logs a warning through
    Write-Log and returns without a session object.

PARAMETERS
    None. This function does not accept parameters.

INPUTS
    None. This function does not accept pipeline input.

OUTPUTS
    System.Management.Automation.Runspaces.PSSession
        The first PSSession returned by Get-PSSession, when one is available.
        The function also displays a summary table to the host; that table is
        not returned as pipeline output.

EXAMPLES
    Example 1: List sessions and return the selected session
    --------------------------------------------------------
    PS C:\> $session = Get-NewPSRemoteSession

    Displays a summary table of sessions in the current runspace and assigns
    the first session returned by Get-PSSession to $session. The same session
    is stored in $script:ActivePSSession.

    Example 2: Use the selected session
    -----------------------------------
    PS C:\> Get-NewPSRemoteSession
    PS C:\> $script:ActivePSSession

    Displays the session summary and then references the script-scoped variable
    containing the selected PSSession. The variable is assigned in the script
    scope where the function runs.

NOTES
    - The selected session is the first object returned by Get-PSSession; the
      function does not provide a parameter for choosing a different session.
    - If no sessions are found, Write-Log is called with level Warn and no
      session object is returned.
    - On success, Write-Log is called with level Info to record the selected
      session name and Id.
    - The function depends on Get-PSSession and Write-Log being available in
      its execution environment.

RELATED TOPICS
    about_Remote
    about_PSSessions
    Get-PSSession
    Start-NewPSRemoteSession
    Stop-PSRemoteSession
    Remove-PSSession
